---
title: "Modeling Urban Flood Impacts and Potential Solutions at Community Scales in Pittsburgh, PA"
collection: talks
type: "Conference oral presentation"
permalink: /talks/2022-12-AGU2
venue: "AGU Fall Meeting 2022"
date: 2022-12-12
location: "Chicaco, IL"
---

Abstract:
Pittsburgh is one of many cities facing increasing challenges from stormwater flooding, and the corresponding impacts are expected to increase under future climate projections for the Northeast United States. This research aims to model urban flooding impacts and potential adaptation strategies in Pittsburgh to facilitate equitable decision making at community and city levels. Building on previous modeling efforts, this research focuses on modeling at the block scale and community scale to support climate resilient stormwater management in Pittsburgh.
Preliminary results focus on the data needed to characterize flows and flooding at the block scale under a 1D SWMM model and a 1D-2D PCSWMM dual drainage model, including details about sewer networks, land elevation and land use, building footprints and road networks. Data collection and validation also highlight the importance of engagement with community groups for model planning and of partnerships with all stakeholders for calibration and validation. Engagement with local community groups dedicated to the support of innovative rainwater stewardship and conveyance strategies is essential in identifying at-risk block scale catchments where focused modeling would be most useful. Similarly, calibration and validation of SWMM/PCSWMM models at the block scale is made possible through monitoring partnerships with local utilities and consultants. The calibrated 1D model is used to assess flows and street flooding under design storms in Pittsburgh. After expanding the current 1D model to a 1D-2D dual drainage model, future work will compare flood risk to assess advantages and disadvantages of dual drainage modeling at the block scale, examine how flood risks are exacerbated under the deep uncertainty of climate change, connect modeled projections to adverse health outcomes from frequent basement flooding, and evaluate potential green infrastructure and traditional infrastructure solutions.
