---
title: "Riverine Nature Based Solutions (NBS) for Climate Resilient Highways and Transportation Corridors"
collection: talks
type: "Conference poster presentation"
permalink: /talks/2022-01-TRB
venue: "Transportation Research Board (TRB) Annual Meeting 2022"
date: 2022-01-11
location: "Washington, DC"
---

Abstract:
Nature based solutions (NBS) refers to the use of natural materials, and natural conditions, along with engineered structures that incorporate natural processes and materials. In the riverine environment, NBS can be used along with traditional, “gray” countermeasures to reduce the risk due to lateral migration of stream channels, stream instability or erosion, and flooding, among other risks to transportation corridors in the riverine environment. Most of these risks are expected to intensify under changing precipitation patterns associated with climate change. In this paper, we discuss different definitions of NBS and strategies that can be installed in the riverine environment. We present a few high-level examples of ways in which popular NBS strategies can increase resilience of highways and other transportation infrastructure. We then describe trends among 92 NBS projects completed in the United States. We categorize 151 strategies used within the 92 NBS projects, based on the strategy’s location in the river channel and the design purpose that each strategy fulfills. Among these NBS projects, we found the number of projects increased over time, and project cost and project size generally increased for more recently completed projects. As NBS grow in popularity, we discuss challenges to NBS project design, planning and installation, and monitoring and maintenance, and potential solutions to these challenges. Future work aims to further examine these trends and highlight other successful and interesting case studies, primarily in conversation with local stakeholders. This paper summarizes the initial results from a synthesis being generated under the DOT Eisenhower Fellowship.
