---
title: "Assessing Performance of an Aging Green Roof in Pittsburgh, PA"
collection: talks
type: "Conference oral presentation"
permalink: /talks/2023-08-EWRI
venue: "Environmental & Water Resources Institute (EWRI) Low Impact Development (LID) Conference 2023"
date: 2023-08-11
location: "Oklahoma City, OK"
---

Abstract:
Green infrastructure is increasingly recognized as a potential solution for climate adaptation
and flood management in urban areas. Research evaluating and reviewing the performance of
green infrastructure, and particularly of green roofs, has highlighted the uniqueness of each
installation, and the need for site specific data to draw accurate conclusions for planning and
implementation. In this research, we aim to use water balance equations to assess
performance of a green roof in Pittsburgh, PA, under the effects of age and climate change,
and therefore inform future decision making for green roofs in particular, and green
infrastructure in general. We develop a Python model to simulate performance of the
Hamerschlag Hall Green Roof on Carnegie Mellon University’s campus. The model uses
measurements of precipitation and other atmospheric variables measured on the green roof to
estimate evapotranspiration during the periods between storms and to estimate infiltration
during storms, and then applies a water balance to estimate runoff. The model is calibrated
and validated using data collected for storms observed on the green roof in 2019-2020.
Previous research has evaluated performance of the green roof for select storms in 2009-2011. 
By forcing the calibrated model with time series of precipitation and atmospheric
variables representing the storms that were observed in 2009-2011, we will be able to
compare observed and modeled performance, attributing differences in performance to the
age of the green roof.
